README for PHP Shell
Copyright (C) 2000 Martin Geisler <gimpster@gimpster.com>
Licensed under the GNU GPL. See the file COPYING for details.

What is PHP Shell?
------------------
PHP Shell is a shell wrapped in a PHP script. It's a tool you can use
to execute arbiritary shell-commands or browse the filesystem on your
remote webserver. This replaces, to a degree, a normal telnet-connection.
You can use it for transferring your site as a compressed file, and
then unpack it on the webserver, administration and maintenance of
your website using commands like ps, free, du, df etc...
 

Limitations
-----------
There are some limitations on what kind of programs you can run. It
won't do no good if you start something like Netscape or even vi. All
programs have to be strictly command-line programs, and they will have
no chance of getting user input after they have been lunched. They
properly also have to terminate within 30 seconds, as this is the
default time-limit imposed unto all PHP-scripts, to prevent them from
running in an infinite loop. Your ISP may have set this time-limit to
something else.

But you can rely on all the normal shell-functionality, like pipes,
output and input redirection, etc ... (There is no <tab>-completion,
though :-)


Who am I?
---------
(Well, my name is Martin, but that's not the point :-)

You may not be the same user when using PHP Shell, as you are when you
upload your files with ftp. On some systems you will be 'nobody', on
other systems you will become 'httpd' or 'www-data'. This is a rather
dangerous "feature" of PHP Shell! So use it at your own risk - I wont
be responsible if your account is closed or something like that
happens.

If you want to execute code as different user, then it's possible
to do so by using the Sudo program available from this address:

  http://www.courtesan.com/sudo/

The trick is to configure Sudo to allow the user running the webserver
to execute certain commands as a more privileged user. Please refer to
the documentation for Sudo for further information about doing this.
Thanks goes to Jeremy Miller <JMiller@marketaxess.com> for this
information.</p>


How to use it
-------------
When you point your browser at PHP Shell and types in your password
(see the file INSTALL for more information on how to password-protect
PHP Shell), you'll be presented with a rather simple page. It has the
following elements:

The Command Input box:
  Here you can type a command, and when you press the "Execute" button
  the command will be executed in the current working directory.

  If your command is 'cd something', then it won't be executed like an
  ordinary command - the current working directory will be updated
  instead. This works with both relative and absolute paths.

  And if your command is 'ls', then it will be changed to 'ls -F'.
  This makes ls append indicators to the filenames: directories end with 
  a slash, executable files will end with an asterisk and so on.

The current working directory:
  This is the directory where all command are being executed. You can
  use the dropdown-box to choose a new working directory. To quickly
  jump towards the root of the filesystem, just click on
  one of the links to jump to that directory.

The Output
  Here goes the output from your commands. You will be able to scroll
  thought the box if the output is to large to fit inside.
  It is only output to stdout that goes into the Output box. This can
  be rather confusing, because then sometimes you just don't get any
  output.
  I've made a workaround, that fixes the problem. If you select
  "Enable stderr-trapping" your command <command> will be executed
  this way:
  
  <command> 1> /tmp/output.txt 2>&1; cat /tmp/output.txt; rm /tmp/output.txt

  It is done by simply appending the arguments to your command. It
  redirects all output from your command to a file, both stdout and
  stderr. It then shows the file, and cleans things up when
  finished. It's quick and dirty, and will only work if you haven't
  already redirected the output.


Download
--------
You can download PHP Shell from http://www.gimpster.com. The tarball
contains these files:

phpshell.php
  This is the script you run when you use PHP Shell.

ChangeLog
  This file describe the changes I've made to PHP Shell. By reading it
  you'll always know when I've added a new feature or made a bugfix,
  and the nature of the feature/bugfix.

README
  (This file:-)

INSTALL
  Tells you how to install PHP Shell. It explains how you can
  password-protect PHP Shell - this is very important, or else
  everybody will be able so snoop into your files and perhaps also be
  able to delete them! I've already seem one site that were using PHP
  Shell without password-protection, I was able so quickly find their
  config.inc.php-file from phpMyAdmin, and read the password to the
  database! So please take the time to password-protect PHP Shell.

sample.htaccess
  To make it extra easy for you to password-protect PHP Shell, I've
  include this template for a .htaccess-file. If you set this up
  correctly Apache will prompt you for a username and password when
  you try to access the directory containing PHP Shell.

COPYING
  Standard GNU disclamer